welcome to the rest of garden today I
want to show you how you can tell when
your pepper transplants are ready to get
into bigger containers and talk a little
bit about feeding I transplant mine into
potting mix any potting mix that you buy
at a store is fine when the plants get
this big into going to bigger containers
don't use seed starting mix you're just
sort of wasting your money you can go to
the bigger bags of potting mix the root
systems the plants are ready to handle
you know this type of mix this is our
Miracle Grow I think it has a little bit
of fertilizer and that I don't remember
when your plants have been growing for a
while in the cups you can just check on
them if you flip it over you're looking
for the root system the roots should be
nice and white and you can see these
roots are still growing down the length
of the cup to the bottom and there are
no roots here this plant can stay in
here probably for at least another week
but that's how you check on them as you
work your way across I did cheat and
peek at these this is a cayenne pepper
you can see this system of roots is
going down and they're starting to show
right here you could transplant this
right now or you could wait a couple of
days you don't want them starting to
coil right around here but what you can
tell is that they have nice solid strong
root systems and then this is a mulatto
and you can see how this is coiling more
these are definitely ready to go into
the containers and then this one is a
Soriano and same thing so when the roots
really I mean they look great when they
start filling up the sides start to coil
right around here they're ready to go so
these three plants can go into
containers now you want to go into
something that's about double the size
you can put them into a a peach shell
like this I don't recommend it I don't
like them they tend to grow algae about
these a while ago and haven't really
used them plastic container this is
probably perfect
your pepper will be able to sit in there
this is recycled I have my neighbor's
drop these off all the time when they
you know put the annuals into their
garden or you can use another Styrofoam
cup this might be a 20 ounce earner this
was an 8 or 10 ounce or so it's enough
for the plant to grow and the key is
when you do this you want to get about
an inch worth of soil on the bottom so
that the roots root system can grow into
it
also when you put it in there's enough
room around it that the root systems can
grow out and you can see when you get to
a bigger container there's more room for
the root this one's better because not
only does it give it a lot of space for
the roots to grow out from the sides but
it gives some space down there and I'm
going to show you how to transplant one
of them it's pretty simple drop in
enough soil press it down maybe get
about an inch
grab your pepper pop it out now you
don't have to plant it like that you
want to gently break up the system break
up the sides and this other roots look
like that when you sit it down they're
going to be pointing in every direction
that's what you want let them roam wild
and be free and go into all the new open
space so I'm lightly pressing it in or
dropping it in and then just gently
press in your potting mix you don't have
to plant the stem any deeper like
tomatoes you can you can go about to
here let me bring it down to about here
maybe a fingers with it's be fine if you
plant it over that they will grow some
roots at the top but they're not like
tomatoes where you can you know have to
plant them deeper or planning deeper
really benefits up so that's what you
end up with this will be able to sit in
here at least another least another four
weeks but May
maybe six weeks eight weeks it'll grow
nicely in here these are the peppers
that I topped off they're getting nice
side shoot growth already and that's how
you can determine whether or not your
peppers are ready to be transplanted now
fertilizing a lot of people ask me
questions it's pretty hard to figure out
how much of the dry granular granule
fertilizer to put into something like
this that's why I use liquid fertilizer
I just use Miracle Grow something
similar half strength and every time I
water these they get some fertilizer
near I don't overdo it
but it's enough for them to grow and
really do well so I do recommend in your
transplants to really use a water
soluble fertilizer you can go organic if
you want but you have to make sure you
represent the N P and K when you go with
organic fertilizers and sometimes that's
a little bit harder so hopefully this
gives you an idea of when to transplant
your peppers the size of pots to put
them in and a way to keep them
fertilized until they're ready to go out
into your garden please check out my
blog at www.micaelaferrero.com